hey guys is Steve from gamers Nexus
dotnet and this is our next installment
of Saturday heat signature I hope you
have your bowl of cereal ready because
you are going to need something to spit
at the screen when you're watching this
video it is such a cool game we're
talking about hawken today which say
mech combat FPS before I jump into that
I want to give a quick shout to Andrew
legendary cake Coleman who developed the
awesome intro video we now have four
heat signature thanks Andrew for that
let's dive into hakan Hawkin as I said
mech combat FPS so you're a mech fighter
you're in a big massive Hulk that walks
around and shoots missiles and bullets
we've all seen mex before you've seen
transformers seen mech warrior games and
this is when I saw these video it struck
me as what the transformers game always
wanted to be but never quite had the
ambition or design or gaming expertise
and sure there were a couple transformer
games that were okay but there were
nothing really super spectacular also
when I see this game I think of
battlefield 24 t too long for 2142 of
all things because I don't know I see
these big ships in the sky and their
battleships or flagships and they
totally remind me out of the titans that
you've jumped out of in 2142 if anyone
even played that game out there I think
it was with a pretty big failure but
Hawkin is a free to play FPS they will
have in-game items to buy I think they
hinted at buying different weapons or
different outfits stuff like that
hopefully nothing that will be super off
balancing but again it's free to play
initially so really how much money is a
weapon you know you can invest in a
couple weapons here and there and you
probably won't hit the maximum price
point of a brand new game it is an
independently developed game by adhesive
games limited and they are using the
Unreal Engine by epic I believe it is
unreal engine 3 i'm sure some iteration
of that and as you can see in these
videos the combat is really fast paced
it has an integrated HUD which is one of
my favorite things i really wanted to
cover that for a second it's basically
when you have the HUD on the screen just
heads up display through those who don't
now on the screen just like normally
except you actually build it into
something in the game so that it makes
sense for example in the game grid or
another racing game
you can actually actually disable the
overlaid HUD the two-dimensional one and
opt to use only the in the car hugs so
it was kind of like driving an actual
car because you had to rely on the
actual speedometer which of course is
not as perfectly accurate not as easy to
see as a two-dimensional rendered HUD
and those two dimensional ones do chief
from the value of games in my eyes they
do make it a little bit late they sort
of ruin the immersion but hakan has it
perfectly integrated that HUD with your
health your ammo all of these core
details for your mech suit into the game
so that it's actually part of your suit
and that's that's just something that's
really cool i think a lot of people
don't really pay attention to it it
deserves huge attention though because
integrated HUDs is just they really
bring you into the game they put you in
the suit and you don't have these silly
2d interfaces to remind you that hey I'm
playing a game right now and so that's
just something I wanted to touch on
really quick and as you watch this video
you'll see his HUD his health rather in
the bottom left in that circle it's
normally in the hundreds and you can
actually repair yourself or something to
that extent maybe power down I'm not
sure with the terminology that will be
used as but you can do some kind of
self-healing and basically you'll see in
this video that he's getting shot at and
runs around the corner and sort of
crouches down for like three seconds
that he has while this guy is trying to
find them and those three seconds give
him enough health to run through the
smoke and escape the scene and then
eventually turn around and flew off his
pursuer so that's just that really
illustrates how fast-paced this game is
and I think the self-healing mechanic is
sort of cool it's definitely not unreal
tournament style which is one of the
biggest drop and pick up and power up
based games out there however I have
seen some stuff that looks to be like
pickups they're these green floating
discs that you see in the background
sometimes so I think there may still be
pickups in this game but again the cell
feeling is a really cool mechanic that I
think will help to keep gameplay alive
it'll take you away from what really
sort of kills original Halo or kills
unreal tournament and those types of
games as much as I love power-ups a lot
much as I love big health packs if you
if you're so into the game that you step
out of combat and actively go sir
for health packs to pick up even so far
as going back to your face to find on
that really slows gameplay down it's a
chore it's not fun sometimes it's just
more fun to die and then respawn it's
even faster but self healing will help
prevent that and it will make the game
it'll keep things active keep things
going looking at the environment jumping
around a bit from mechanics to art the
artistic direction is beautiful in this
game as I said it is based in the future
it is very it actually reminds me a lot
of the movie wall-e that was put out a
few years ago and it's just it's a I
don't want to say post-apocalyptic
because it isn't they actually described
as humans moved and colonized to a
different colonized a different planet
rather and after this colony was around
for a while at sort of self-destructed
fell into tatters and now they were left
in perpetual war fighting over whatever
resources are left on the planet just in
terms of pure style pure art and
storyline the building to really fit
everything fits together perfectly it's
solid it really gives that destroyed
that dilapidated look that you would
think of future setting would have torn
out let's jump into gameplay mechanics
that we know that there are two major
teams the Alliance and the coalition we
don't know a whole lot more about them
beyond that that's just what we see in
the top left of the videos you can see
that they have energy levels of zero and
some of these videos what the developers
say and their official faq a section of
the website which have a link in the
description below there'll be four game
modes immediately launched two
traditional one is team deathmatch and
the other is free for all deathmatch and
then two unique game modes which are
focused entirely on teams they have not
revealed what they are yet but they are
on that fake you section as far as what
we want a hundred percent know without
speculation you do have two weapons on
your suit for sure there's one on the
left and one on the right these videos
we specifically see that on the Left
he's normally using missiles so I've
seen a couple different types of
missiles it seems that there's like a
cluster mistel that missile excuse me
that sort of locks on it blasts out and
a big spray radius and then centers back
on the target to sort of close them in a
bit and box them in and give you a
higher chance of having some of those
missiles hit and then on the right we
typically see him using a machine gun
which I don't really
to explain that we also see in the
bottom right of the HUD there are a
cheat charges he normally has three or
two of them I would presume that's a chi
as in the AG three nades meaning
fragmentation so those are that's such a
speculation I don't know one hundred
percent on that we do see that as he
gets shot his health obviously goes down
and once he gets critically wounded down
to 65 or less health or 85 in some
instances his suit does give a very
violent shake and seems like it's
knocked out of its its flight patterns I
don't know if that's going to remain in
the game or if that's just his timing of
the videos but just some cool stuff I've
noticed you can sign up for the closed
beta right now on the left side of their
website they will give you a code that
you send to your friends and they'll
click on the link and then you might get
accepted to beta if you meet the
requirements the open beta will be folio
for everybody on 12 12 12 December
twelfth 2012 which is only a few days
before the Mayan apocalypse so we'll get
a couple days to try it out and see how
it is before the world ends that's it
for heat signature for now guys please
check back next week where we will be
covering Castle story and possibly even
a different game that is a completely
different genre call with them looking
at so far so stay tuned we will have
another heat signature every Saturday
peace